# cs203-S2020-lab1-starter

Designed for use with [GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/), this
repository contains the starter for Laboratory 1 in Computer Science 203. As
part of this assignment, you should answer all of the questions in the
`report.md` file, furnishing evidence of your contributions to the project.
Students who have questions about this task should talk with a student technical
or the course instructor. Before the due date for this project, please ensure
that:

- You made significant contributions to the shared GitHub repositories for both
  the Code of Conduct and the Assessment Guide.

- The build status for the shared GitHub repositories for both the Code of
  Conduct and the Assessment Guide are passing.

- The GitHub repositories for the Code of Conduct and the Assessment Guide do
  not have any open, unresolved issues in them.

- This GitHub repository contains a complete reflection file.

- You have followed the required best practices for asking the course instructor
  for feedback on the work that you completed for this laboratory assignment.

## References to the Shared GitHub Repositories

As part of this assignment, you will work in an entire-class team to complete
all of the required tasks in the two following repositories:

- [Code of Conduct for Computer Science 203 Spring 2020](https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-203-S2020/cs203-S2020-conduct)
- [Assessment Guide for Computer Science 203 Spring 2020](https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-203-S2020/cs203-S2020-assessment)

## Assignment Assessment

Taking inspiration from the principles of [specification-based
grading](http://rtalbert.org/return-to-specs-grading-calculus/), the grade that
a student receives on this assignment will have the following components:

- **Travis CI Build Status**: Since additional checks on the source code and/or
  technical writing may be encoded in Travis CI's actions, students will receive
  a checkmark grade if their last before-the-deadline build passes and a green
  &#x2714; appears in their GitHub commit log instead of a red &#x2717;. As with
  the previous grading component, students are encouraged to repeatedly revise
  their source code and technical writing in an attempt to get their Travis CI
  build to pass.

- **Mastery of Technical Writing**: Students will also receive a checkmark grade
  when the responses to the technical writing questions presented in the
  `reflection.md` reveal a mastery of both writing skills and technical
  knowledge. To receive a checkmark grade, the submitted writing should have
  correct spelling, grammar, and punctuation in addition to following the rules
  of Markdown and providing technically accurate answers. Students are
  encouraged to ask the course instructor or a student technical leader to use
  the GitHub issue tracker to provide feedback on their mastery of technical
  writing skills.

- **Mastery of Technical Knowledge and Skills**: Students will also receive a
  checkmark grade when their GitHub repository reveals that they have mastered
  all of the technical knowledge and skills developed during the completion of
  this assignment. As a part of this grade, the instructor will assess aspects
  of the project including, but not limited to, the use of effective Markdown
  syntax and appropriate Git commit messages. Students are encouraged to ask the
  course instructor or a student technical leader to use the GitHub issue
  tracker to provide feedback on how well their work demonstrates mastery of the
  assignment's technical knowledge and skills.

Students who wish to receive feedback on their work for this laboratory
assignment should first open an issue on the issue tracker for this GitHub
repository, giving an appropriate title and description for the type of feedback
that you would like the course instructor to provide. After creating this issue,
you will see that GitHub has created a unique web site that references this
issue. To alert the course instructor to the fact that the issue was created and
that you want feedback on your work, please send it to him by a Slack direct
message at least 24 hours in advance of the project's due date. After the
instructor responds to the issue, please resolve all of the stated concerns and
participate in the discussion until the issue is closed.

All grades for this project will be reported through a student's GitHub
repository using either messages in the GitHub commit log or issues raised in
the issue tracker. Students should ask questions about their grade for this
project in GitHub so as to facilitate an effective conversation about the
submitted deliverables.

## Reporting Problems

If you have found a problem with this assignment's provided source code or
documentation, then you can go to the [Computer Science 203 Spring 2020 Lab
1](https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-203-F2020/cs203-F2020-lab1-starter)
repository and [raise an
issue](https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-203-F2020/cs203-F2020-lab1-starter/issues).
If you have found a problem with the [GatorGrader
tool](https://github.com/GatorEducator/gatorgrader) and the way that it checks
your assignment, then you can also [raise an
issue](https://github.com/GatorEducator/gatorgrader/issues) in that repository.
To ensure that your issue is properly resolved, please provide as many details
as is possible about the problem that you experienced. If you discover a problem
with the assignment sheet for this project, then please raise an issue in the
GitHub repository that provides the assignment sheets for your course.

Whenever possible, individuals who find, and use the appropriate GitHub issue
tracker to correctly document a mistake in any aspect of this assignment will
receive free [GitHub stickers](https://octodex.github.com/) and extra credit
towards their grade for the project.

## Receiving Assistance

If you are having trouble completing any part of this project, then please talk
with either the course instructor or a student technical leader during the
course session. Alternatively, you may ask questions in the Slack workspace for
this course. Finally, you can schedule a meeting during the course instructor's
office hours.
